Add page on battery handling (#237)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/03-hardware/03-batteries.mdx

2. Plug the other battery cable into the main output cable of the charger, this may require an adaptor, as seen in the section on using in the robot

3. Plug the Powertech Plus into a power socket, and use the arrow buttons to select the "Charging" setting for the type of battery you are charging. For the NUgus robot
   battery this is a 14.8V 4 Cell, as seen in the image below. For a Darwin robot battery, this is a 11.1V 3 Cell.

4. Hold down the start button until the device beeps, and observe the content on the screen. If the charging device indicates any errors, stop charging immediately,
   unplug the battery, and return it to a fire retardant case. If there are no errors, press start to commence charging

5. Close and lock the white BAT-SAFE box with the battery inside (Keep the charger outside if possible to hear when it is done)

6. Stay in the lab with the battery and disconnect immediately when charge has completed. Never leave a battery charging when there is no one in the lab

![Charging setting on Powertech Plus LiPo Charger](./images/batteries/charge.jpg)

## Storing and Traveling with batteries

<Alert>

> Care should be taken to verify the LiPo battery limits of the airline you are travelling with. They will usually specify a maximum `Ah` value for all batteries and

Reviewer: They calculate in `Wh` not `Ah`, which is calculated using `Voltage * Ah`

Reviewer: https://www.qantas.com/au/en/travel-info/baggage/dangerous-goods/spare-batteries-and-powerbanks.html#:~:text=Note%3A%20Watt%20hours%20(Wh)%20are%20determined%20by%20multiplying%20the%20voltage%20(V)%20by%20the%20amp%20hours%20(Ah).%20ie.%2012V%20x%205Ah%20%3D%2060Wh

Reviewer: I distinctly remember being very confused when they asked for Watt Hours since it's such a weird unit lol

possibly a maximum number of batteries. If you are found carrying more than this limit then you will likely need to discard the batteries and not fly with them.
</Alert>

When travelling, LiPo batteries should always be kept in fire retardant bags, with one battery stored in each fire retardant bag. If travelling on an aircraft,
LiPo batteries should always go in carry-on luggage, never in checked luggage. It is important to prepare batteries for storage when travelling on an aircraft.
Batteries should also be prepared for storage when being stored in the lab for an extended period of time.

In both cases, preparing a battery for storage is done by following the same process outlined for charging, however by using the "Storage" setting, as seen in the
image below.

![Storage setting on Powertech Plus LiPo Charger](./images/batteries/storage.jpg)

## Disposal of batteries

If a battery has been physically damaged or is showing errors when attempting to charge, it should be disposed of. Batteries for disposal should be taken in a fire
retardant bag to the Electrical Engineering building on campus. Talk to the team leader to confirm the most up to date details of where to take them.

> If the cables on the battery are damaged, it is a good idea to wrap the damaged section in electrical tape to prevent them short cicruiting inside the fire retardant

Reviewer: Specify that the single cable must be wrapped, it could be interpreted that the entire section needs to be wrapped together with this wording (which would obvs cause the short then)

---
section: Guides
chapter: Hardware
title: Batteries
description: How to safely work with batteries
slug: /guides/hardware/batteries
authors:
  - Lachlan Court (@LachlanCourt)
---

## Battery Safety

<Alert>This page is not designed to be a substitute for the official lab induction, however it should be suitable as a revision tool</Alert>

> Our robots run on 4 Cell 14.8V Lithium Polymer (LiPo) batteries. In order to handle batteries in the lab you should have completed a formal lab induction.

Reviewer 2: Should mention the Darwin batteries as well.

To connect a battery monitor to the battery:

1. Start by finding the cable on the battery with the white plug. Line up the `-` symbol on the monitor with the 5 black leads of the battery cable, and plug in. Be aware that the battery monitor will beep several times when this happens, this is normal. ![Battery monitor attached to a battery](./images/batteries/battery_monitor.jpg)

2. Once the battery monitor is attached to the battery, the other cable on the battery can now be plugged into the robot. Depending on the battery this may require an adaptor lead, shown below.

3. Once both cables on the battery are hooked up, the robot can safely be turned on. Be sure to carefully load the battery into the robot to avoid damage, this may require some technique so don't be afraid to ask a team member for the best way to go about this.

![Battery in robot with a battery monitor](./images/batteries/battery_in_robot.jpg)

> <Alert type="warning">It is important to never use a battery in the robot without a battery monitor, and also to unplug both the robot and the monitor from the battery when not being used. Both of these can lead to the battery going flat beyond recovery</Alert>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Alert type="warning">It is important to never use a battery in the robot without a battery monitor, and also to unplug both the robot and the monitor from the battery when not being used. Both of these can lead to the battery going flat beyond recovery.</Alert>
```

Reviewer 3: Split this up into two alerts so that you are less likely to gloss over important information while reading
```suggestion
<Alert type="warning">Never use a battery in the robot without a battery monitor</Alert>

<Alert type="warning">Always unplug both the robot and the monitor from the battery when not being used. Both of these can lead to the battery going flat beyond recovery</Alert>
```

## Charging

We have two types of chargers in the lab to charge LiPo batteries. Both achieve the same purpose and have a similar user interface. The Powertech Plus charger will be used for the purposes of the images below.

### Charging a battery

1. Plug the battery cable with the white plug into the corresponding socket on the side of the charger

> 

Reviewer: I have a feeling there's a couple more steps you need to go through from scratch (which are usually already selected when you chuck on one of our batteries). Would be valuable to include these (from memory it's like chemistry selection stuff), just in case something has been accidentally misconfigured

Author: I reckon if that's the case then they can look up the documentation themselves. This shows what it should look like in a standard case and it's not designed to be a setup/troubleshooting guide so unless we cover every case I feel like this should be suitable imo :thinking:

Reviewer 3: Then mention that if the interface differs to what is shown in the pictures that the help of a team member (and/or consultation with the setup/troubleshooting guide) should be sought as blindly going ahead could result in catastrophic battery failure (the chargers are usually good enough to detect bad cases, so "catastrophic" is probably over-the-top, but you get the point)

2. Plug the other battery cable into the main output cable of the charger, this may require an adaptor, as seen in the section on using in the robot

3. Plug the Powertech Plus into a power socket, and use the arrow buttons to select the "Charging" setting for a 14.8V 4 Cell battery, as seen in the image below

> 4. Hold down the start button until the device beeps, and the content on the screen indicates the charging has commenced

Reviewer 2: After holding down, check for any errors. If any errors, then don't proceed! If no errors, press start.

> 5. Close and lock the white BATT-SAFE box with the battery inside (Keep the charger outside if possible to hear when it is done)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Close and lock the white BAT-SAFE box with the battery inside (Keep the charger outside if possible to hear when it is done)
```

6. Stay in the lab with the battery and disconnect immediately when charge has completed. Never leave a battery charging when there is no one in the lab

![Charging setting on Powertech Plus LiPo Charger](./images/batteries/charge.jpg)

## Storing and Traveling with batteries

> When travelling, LiPo batteries should always go in carry-on luggage in aircraft, never in checked luggage. It is important to prepare batteries for storage when travel in aircraft. Batteries should also be prepared for storage when being stored in the lab for an extended period of time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When travelling, LiPo batteries should always be kept in fire retardant bags, with one battery stored in each fire retardant bag. If travelling on an aircraft LiPo batteries 
should always go in carry-on luggage, never in checked luggage. It is important to prepare batteries for storage when travelling in an aircraft. Batteries should also be prepared for storage when being stored in the lab for an extended period of time. 
```

---
section: Guides
chapter: Hardware
title: Batteries
description: How to safely work with batteries
slug: /guides/hardware/batteries
authors:
  - Lachlan Court (@LachlanCourt)
---

## Battery Safety

<Alert>This page is not designed to be a substitute for the official lab induction, however it should be suitable as a revision tool</Alert>

Our robots have the capability to run on both battery power and by plugging into a power supply. The robots should be run on battery power for events such as

> RoboCup, RoboCup qualification videos, lab inductions, and other times were a cable attached to the robot may intefere with its operation. During standard testing in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
RoboCup, RoboCup qualification videos, lab inductions, and other times where a cable attached to the robot may interfere with its operation. During standard testing in
```

the lab, you will usually have the robot running off a power supply.

Our NUgus robots run on 4 Cell 14.8V Lithium Polymer (LiPo) batteries, whilst the Darwin robots use a smaller 3 Cell 11.1V model. In order to handle batteries in the
lab you should have completed a formal lab induction.

LiPo batteries can be extremely volatile and should always be handled with the utmost care. When not being used, they should be kept in fire retardant bags and stored
carefully in either the "Flat" or "Charged" drawer depending on its current state.
After use, a battery should be be inspected for any physical damage, and clearly marked and set aside if any is present.

## Using in the robot

<Alert type="warning">Never use a battery in the robot without a battery monitor</Alert>

<Alert type="warning">Always unplug both the robot and the monitor from the battery when not being used. Both of these can lead to the battery going flat beyond
recovery</Alert>

Whenever a battery is being used in the robot, it should be additionally connected to a battery monitor. This ensures that the battery will not run so low that it

> will be unusably flat. Unlike regular batteries, LiPo batteries cannot run completely flat unless they are due to be disposed of.

Reviewer 3: The monitor "ensures" nothing. It only provides an audible warning when the battery is flat.

To connect a battery monitor to the battery:

1. Start by finding the cable on the battery with the white plug. Line up the `-` symbol on the monitor with the 5 black leads of the battery cable, and plug in. Be
   aware that the battery monitor will beep several times when this happens, this is normal. ![Battery monitor attached to a battery](./images/batteries/battery_monitor.jpg)

2. Once the battery monitor is attached to the battery, the other cable on the battery can now be plugged into the robot. Depending on the battery this may require an
   adaptor lead, shown below.

> 3. Once both cables on the battery are hooked up, the robot can safely be turned on. Be sure to carefully load the battery into the robot to avoid damage, this may
>    require some technique so don't be afraid to ask a team member for the best way to go about this.

Reviewer 3: Split these up into 2 points
```suggestion
3. Once both cables on the battery cables are hooked up, install the battery into the robot and install the back panel cover. Be sure to carefully load the battery into the robot to avoid damage, this may require some technique so don't be afraid to ask a team member for the best way to go about this.
4. The robot can now be safely turned on.
```

![Battery in robot with a battery monitor](./images/batteries/battery_in_robot.jpg)

## Charging

We have two types of chargers in the lab to charge LiPo batteries. Both achieve the same purpose and have a similar user interface. The Powertech Plus charger will be
used for the purposes of the images below.

### Charging a battery

> 1. Plug the battery cable with the white plug into the corresponding socket on the side of the charger

Reviewer 3: Might be worth pointing out that these white sockets are keyed and the plug on the battery should only fit into one of the sockets and if you have to force it you are doing it wrong

2. Plug the other battery cable into the main output cable of the charger, this may require an adaptor, as seen in the section on using in the robot

> 3. Plug the Powertech Plus into a power socket, and use the arrow buttons to select the "Charging" setting for the type of battery you a charging. For the NUgus robot

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Plug the Powertech Plus into a power socket, and use the arrow buttons to select the "Charging" setting for the type of battery you are charging. For the NUgus robot
```

   battery this is a 14.8V 4 Cell, as seen in the image below. For a Darwin robot battery, this is a 11.1V 3 Cell.

4. Hold down the start button until the device beeps, and observe the content on the screen. If the charging device indicates any errors, stop charging immediately,
   unplug the battery, and return it to a fire retardant case. If there are no errors, press start to commence charging

5. Close and lock the white BAT-SAFE box with the battery inside (Keep the charger outside if possible to hear when it is done)

6. Stay in the lab with the battery and disconnect immediately when charge has completed. Never leave a battery charging when there is no one in the lab

![Charging setting on Powertech Plus LiPo Charger](./images/batteries/charge.jpg)

## Storing and Traveling with batteries

When travelling, LiPo batteries should always be kept in fire retardant bags, with one battery stored in each fire retardant bag. If travelling on an aircraft,
LiPo batteries should always go in carry-on luggage, never in checked luggage. It is important to prepare batteries for storage when travel in aircraft. Batteries

> should also be prepared for storage when being stored in the lab for an extended period of time.

Reviewer 3: Care should be taken to verify LiPo battery limits that your airlines have set. They will usually specify a maximum `Ah` value for all batteries and possibly a maximum number of batteries. If they catch you carrying more than this limit they will probably make you throw the batteries out

In both cases, preparing a battery for storage is done by following the same process outlined for charging, however by using the "Storage" setting, as seen in the
image below.

![Storage setting on Powertech Plus LiPo Charger](./images/batteries/storage.jpg)

## Disposal of batteries

If a battery has been physically damaged or is showing errors when attempting to charge, it should be disposed of. Batteries for disposal should be taken to the

> Electrical Engineering building on campus. Talk to the team leader to confirm the most up to date details of where to take them.

Reviewer 3: Acquiring some electrical tape so you can "bandage" damaged cables (so they dont short out when in the fire retardant bag might be a good idea too)
